---
layout: post
title: FTC newbies week 5!
image: /img/FTC_ROVERRUCKUS.jpg
---

On October 12th, FTC newbies had their first Newbie Bot Design Meeting! 
Newbies were divided into groups of four and were instructed to brainstorm ideas for construction of a robot built with Vex Robotics parts. 
After 45 minutes of intense discussion within small groups, ideas were shared with everyone. Although everyone had disagreements as to what the final design of the bot should look like, we were able to eventually agree on a final design. Many creative designs were presented, but the group unfortunately could only choose one design for each function of the robot. 
Here's what we came up with so far: To move around on the playing field, the robot would have 6 wheels, with 3 on each side, allowing the robot to move forwards and backwards easily. In order to lift the bot off the ground during auton to receive extra points, a linear slide mechanism, which converts a motor's rotational motion to linear extension, would be attached to the robot, with a hook at the end. An acquiring mechanism with surgical tubing would also be placed at the front of the bot to collect the game pieces into the body. 
Game pieces will be sorted out by passive discernment— the balls will be picked up and the blocks left behind. After the game pieces are collected, a separate set of linear slides bring the game pieces up to the height of the cargo, which is 30 inches of the playing field. This was a very productive meeting. 
Keep up the great work, everyone!